.DEVNOTES/TASKS.md, before:

# Tasks

## Features
[ ] Allow Syncing Via GIT repository

## UI
[ ] Add notes to the UI for all keybinds.
[ ] Render the markdown notes unless in Edit mode. 
[ ] Add a search bar to the UI.
[ ] Look into using VIM friendly keybinds.
[ ] First note always gets stuck "Rendering..." until you view the next next note in the tree.
[ ] Clear stale pane text when switching help or screens (ensure panes pad to full width/height).
[ ] Bring the colors and styles into the Note Edit UI.
[x] Avoid OSC background color query strings (ex: `1;rgb:...`) being inserted into notes when editing.

## Performance
[ ] Improve performance on a fresh build.

## Developer Experiqence
[x] Improve developer experience by adding more detailed documentation.
[ ] Add more tests to ensure the application works as expected.
[ ] Improve error handling and logging.
[ ] Improve code readability and maintainability.
[x] Improve code organization and modularity.
[x] Add inline documentation to `cmd/notes/main.go`.
[x] Add CONTRIBUTING.md with PR and code style guidelines.

## Testing
[ ] Implement testing framework
[ ] Add unit tests for tree building and render cache behavior in `internal/app`.

Commit message:

Working to suppress errant input on edit

.DEVNOTES/TASKS.md, after:

# Tasks

## Features
[ ] Allow Syncing Via GIT repository

## UI
[ ] Add notes to the UI for all keybinds.
[ ] Render the markdown notes unless in Edit mode. 
[ ] Add a search bar to the UI.
[ ] Look into using VIM friendly keybinds.
[ ] First note always gets stuck "Rendering..." until you view the next next note in the tree.
[ ] Clear stale pane text when switching help or screens (ensure panes pad to full width/height).
[ ] Bring the colors and styles into the Note Edit UI.
[x] Avoid OSC background color query strings (ex: `1;rgb:...`) being inserted into notes when editing.
[x] Filter stray OSC background response sequences from editor input on first edit.
[ ] Capture and classify remaining "random" injected input on first edit (enable `CLI_NOTES_DEBUG_INPUT`).

## Performance
[ ] Improve performance on a fresh build.

## Developer Experiqence
[x] Improve developer experience by adding more detailed documentation.
[ ] Add more tests to ensure the application works as expected.
[ ] Improve error handling and logging.
[ ] Improve code readability and maintainability.
[x] Improve code organization and modularity.
[x] Add inline documentation to `cmd/notes/main.go`.
[x] Add CONTRIBUTING.md with PR and code style guidelines.

## Testing
[ ] Implement testing framework
[ ] Add unit tests for tree building and render cache behavior in `internal/app`.
